README.md, before:

# movie-recommender

You probably interact with a recommendation system every day. Whether it's the food suggestions on your maps app or the tiktok algorithm that recommends what to watch next, an algorithm is controlling what content you see. The concept is simple, but slight inaccuracies can lead to less activity from users and even churn. Think about all the times you closed tiktok or instagram reels because the content you were getting just didn't fit your current mood. 

In this project we'll be creating a movie recommendation system. Similar to the other examples, having an accurate movie recommendation system can boost the amount of customers and the time they spend on your app. Imagine having Netflix, but not knowning what movies are available. You wouldn't use the app very much would you?

Before we build the recommendation system, we first have to define what is is. There's various different types of recommendation systems within a single platform. For example, Netflix has recommendations when you open up the app, recommendations for what to watch next, and more. Each one is a different algorithm that is tailoered for a certain purpose. In this project, we will be focusing on the first 2, starting with the second one. As we progress, we will learn about more methods we can use to predict someone's taste.

Whenever you are building a machine learning system, you have inputs and outputs.

1. What is the output?

This may seem self exaplaotry, but it really isn't. Yes, you are outputing movies, but how many? What information should you output? For the two types of recommendation system's you'll see that it is very different.

2. What is the input?

The inputs to a machine elarnign system are called features. This is what we'll use to predict what someone would want to watch next. This consists, of what they have watched, or rated highly in the past. The movies themselves also have feature too. This includes the year they were released, their genre, and even the ratings other users other people haven given them in the past (Hint: we'll be using this data in a future week).

# Data

Data is one of, if not the most important thing, for machine learning projects. This is because you use the data to train a model, instead of explicity defining it yourself. It is important to have both quantity AND quality. Quantity ensure you have enough data to generalize to unseen examples and quality ensures the predictions are accurate. For this project, you can choose whatever dataset of movies you want. However, for sake of simplicity and for teaching, we recommend starting with the ones we curated here. It consists of 3 seperate datasets each with unique information for different technique.

# 
For the introductory week, we will spend time setting up our environment.

1. Clone the repository
2. Create a python virtual environment
3. Download the requirements into the virutal environment
4. Run python app.py
    You should be able to see a flask app that aleady has Search bar
5. Download the data here
    Add it to folder of the repo you cloned
    Add data to your .gitignore file

Congratulations! You are all set to start this project. Right now you should have a functioning website that just displays movies.

Commit message:

finish week 1 and basic website stuff

README.md, after:

# movie-recommender

You probably interact with a recommendation system every day. Whether it's the food suggestions on your maps app or the tiktok algorithm that recommends what to watch next, an algorithm is controlling what content you see. The concept is simple, but slight inaccuracies can lead to less activity from users and even churn. Think about all the times you closed tiktok or instagram reels because the content you were getting just didn't fit your current mood. 

In this project we'll be creating a movie recommendation system. Similar to the other examples, having an accurate movie recommendation system can boost the amount of customers and the time they spend on your app. Imagine having Netflix, but not knowning what movies are available. You wouldn't use the app very much would you?

Before we build the recommendation system, we first have to define what is is. There's various different types of recommendation systems within a single platform. For example, Netflix has recommendations when you open up the app, recommendations for what to watch next, and more. Each one is a different algorithm that is tailoered for a certain purpose. In this project, we will be focusing on the first 2, starting with the second one. As we progress, we will learn about more methods we can use to predict someone's taste.

Now that we know what we're building, lets breakdown some key concepts that we will need to understand before we start.

## Inputs

The inputs to a machine learning system are called features. This is what we'll use to predict what someone would want to watch next. This consists, of what they have watched, or rated highly in the past. The movies themselves also have feature too. This includes the year they were released, their genre, and even the ratings other users other people haven given them in the past (Hint: we'll be using this data in a future week).

## Outputs

This may seem self exaplaotry, but it really isn't. Yes, you are outputing movies, but how many? What information should you output? For the two types of recommendation system's you'll see that it is very different.

## Data

Data is one of, if not the most important thing, for machine learning. This is because you use the data to train a model, instead of explicity defining it yourself. It is important to have both quantity AND quality. Quantity ensure you have enough data to generalize to unseen examples and quality ensures the predictions are accurate. For this project, you can choose whatever dataset of movies you want. However, for sake of simplicity and for teaching, we recommend starting with the ones we curated. Links to download them are here (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rounakbanik/the-movies-dataset) and here (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/netflix-inc/netflix-prize-data). We may introduce more in the future, but make sure you have these 2 downloaded.

## User Interface (UI)

Our project will soley be a movie recommendation system. However, we will try to mimic the types of recommendations streaming services do. We provided a basic website template as a starter UI. To participate in this project, you can leave the UI as it is, but if you like you can customize it. Some ideas are adding movie posters, more movie details, and overall more styling.

# Setting up our environment

1. Clone the repository here
2. Create a python virtual environment
    python -m venv venv to create it
    source venv/bin/activate to go into it
3. Download the requirements into the virutal environment
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    Note: there will be more packages needed in the future, but these are the ones you need right now.
4. Run python app.py
    You should be able to see a flask app that aleady has search bar and a simple display for the movies
    Click around the site to see all of its features
5. Add your data
    Add the data you downloaded to the repository folder
    Add the data to your .gitignore file if it not already in there
        Pushing this data is not recommended because it takes a lot of time and is not getting modified.

Congratulations! You are all set to start this project. Right now you should have a functioning website that just displays movies.
